[#12995] Create documentation for unit tests (#12996)
TEAMMATES/teammates: docs/unit-testing.md

<frontmatter>
  title: "Unit Testing"
</frontmatter>

# Unit Testing  

## What is Unit Testing?
  
Unit testing is a testing methodology where the objective is to test components in isolation.

- It aims to ensure all components of the application work as expected, assuming its dependencies are working.   
- This is done in TEAMMATES by using mocks to simulate a component's dependencies.  

Frontend Unit tests in TEAMMATES are located in `.spec.ts` files, while Backend Unit tests in TEAMMATES can be found in the package `teammates.test`.

## Writing Unit Tests

### General guidelines

#### Include only relevant details in tests
When writing unit tests, reduce the amount of noise in the code to make it easier for future developers to follow.

> The code below has alot of noise in creation of the `studentModel`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code below has a lot of noise in creation of the `studentModel`:
```

```javascript
it('displayInviteButton: should display "Send Invite" button when a student has not joined the course', () => {
    component.studentModels = [
      {
        student: {
          name: 'tester',
          teamName: 'Team 1',
          email: 'tester@tester.com',
          joinState: JoinState.NOT_JOINED,
          sectionName: 'Tutorial Group 1',
          courseId: 'text-exa.demo',
        },
        isAllowedToViewStudentInSection: true,
        isAllowedToModifyStudent: true,
      },
    ];

    expect(sendInviteButton).toBeTruthy();
});
```

However, what is important is only the student joinState. We should thus reduce the noise by including only the relevant details:

```javascript
it('displayInviteButton: should display "Send Invite" button when a student has not joined the course', () => {
    component.studentModels = [
      studentModelBuilder
        .joinState(JoinState.NOT_JOINED)
        .build()
    ];

    expect(sendInviteButton).toBeTruthy();
});
```

> By including only the relevant details in tests, it makes it easier for future developers to read and understand the purpose of the test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Including only the relevant details in tests makes it easier for future developers to read and understand the purpose of the test.
```
